JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: death
from above.
The Obama administration makes
public the
number of inadvertent civilian
deaths from
U.S. airstrikes amid heated
debate and scrutiny.
Then, we report from London on
how the Brexit
vote has immigrants in Britain
feeling increasingly
unwelcome.
DARIA PLUSZCZOK, Business Owner:
I was in
a train station and a guy was
like, the lift
is not working because of you
foreigners.
Go back to your country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields
and Ramesh Ponnuru take on the
uproar over
Hillary Clinton's e-mail
investigation and
Donald Trump's seizure of the
trade issue,
all part of a full week of news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Islamic State
group is
claiming responsibility for an
attack tonight
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Islamic State
group is
claiming responsibility for an
attack tonight
at an upscale restaurant in
Bangladesh. Authorities
say up to nine gunmen took at
least 35 hostages
in Dhaka, the capital, including
some 20 foreigners.
At least 26 people were wounded,
and two police
officers were killed.
Security forces mounted a siege
of the site
as the night went on. The head
of an elite
anti-crime unit said they were
working to
save the hostages.
Turkey's state-run news agency
reports that
police have identified two of
the three suicide
bombers in Tuesday's airport
attack in Istanbul.
The alleged mastermind of the
plot, who remains
at large, is described as an
extremist from
the Russian province of
Chechnya.
Meanwhile, security was
heightened at the
Istanbul Airport today, and
officials from
foreign consulates paid their
respects to
the 44 people who died in the
attacks.
A warning today from the leader
of al-Qaida,
Ayman Al-Zawahri. In an online
video message,
he threatens -- quote -- "the
gravest consequences"
if the surviving Boston Marathon
bomber is
executed. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was
sentenced
last year to death by lethal
injection. The
2013 bombing left three people.
U.S. Attorney General Loretta
Lynch voiced
regret today about a meeting
earlier this
week with former President Bill
Clinton. They
spoke Monday for about 30
minutes after his
private plane landed near her
government aircraft
at the Phoenix Airport.
It stoked criticism because the
FBI is investigating
Hillary Clinton's e-mail
practices as secretary
of state.
Today, in Aspen, Colorado, Lynch
repeated
that she and the former
president never discussed
the investigation, but she said
she understands
the criticism.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: I may
have viewed it in a certain
light, but the
issue is, how does it impact the
work that
I do and the work the Department
of Justice
does? And I certainly wouldn't
do it again,
and -- because I think it has
cast a shadow
over what it shouldn't, over
what it will
not touch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Lynch also said
she plans to
accept whatever recommendations
career FBI
investigators make.
Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton's
presidential
campaign had no comment on the
meeting. But
in Denver today, Republican
candidate Donald
Trump hammered away at both
Clinton and her
husband, the former president.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I think he really opened it up.
He opened
up a Pandora's box, and it shows
what's going
on. And it shows what's
happening with our
laws and with our government.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A spokesman for
President Obama
said today the Clinton e-mail
investigation
is entirely independent of the
White House.
Britain's prospects of a quick
exit from the
European Union grew cloudier
today. A leader
of the Brexit campaign said the
process might
not begin until next year if
he's elected
Conservative Party leader and
prime minister.
Michael Gove said it will take
some time to
invoke the E.U.'s Article 50,
which formally
begins a two-year exit process.
MICHAEL GOVE, U.K. Parliament
Member: I would
only trigger it after extensive
preliminary
talks of the kind that I
discussed earlier,
so I have no expectation that
Article 50 would
be triggered in this calendar
year. I argued
for specific changes in the
referendum campaign.
I believe in those changes. I
will deliver
them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
Britain's finance
minister, George Osborne,
announced that leaving
the E.U. will cut government
revenue, so he's
giving up on the goal of
reaching a budget
surplus by 2020.
Amid the Brexit fallout, Britain
and France
came together to mark 100 years
since the
Battle of the Somme in World War
I. It was
one of the bloodiest in history,
as the armies
of the British and French
empires faced off
against the Germans. One million
died over
five months. Leaders from both
countries met
today at a memorial in France.
The ceremony
included cannon fire and flowers
laid at soldiers'
graves.
China today celebrated the 95th
anniversary
of the ruling Communist Party's
birth. President
Xi Jinping urged the party to
return to its
Marxist roots. He addressed
party members
in Beijing's Great Hall of the
People, and
said corruption is now the
biggest threat
the party faces.
XI JINPING, Chinese President
(through translator):
We must have a staunch will and
not let up
on our zero tolerance attitude.
We must investigate
all cases and punish those who
are corrupt,
to give corrupt elements no
place to hide
in the party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
thousands turned
out in Hong Kong on the 19th
anniversary of
that city's return to Chinese
rule. They denounced
Beijing for kidnapping local
booksellers who
sold critical works about
Chinese leaders.
A new Mississippi law involving
gay marriage
and transgender bathroom policy
is now on
hold. It was set to take effect
today, but
a federal judge blocked it. The
statute allows
businesses and government
employees to cite
religious objections in refusing
services
for same-sex marriages. It also
could affect
school bathroom policy. The
state plans to
appeal.
On Wall Street, stocks managed
modest gains,
to keep up a four-day comeback
from the Brexit
meltdown. The Dow Jones
industrial average
was up 19 points to close at
17949. The Nasdaq
rose nearly 20 points, and the
S&P 500 added
four.
And a visibly cleaner Roman
Coliseum was unveiled
today, 2,000 years after it
hosted gladiator
fights. The ancient site had
been covered
with grime and pollution over
the centuries.
It took workers three years to
remove the
dirt, using water and brushes.
The next phase
involves restoring the
Coliseum's interior.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
a White House
response to the human cost of
drone strikes;
tens of thousands displaced as
an ISIS-held
city in Iraq is freed; growing
fears on the
part of immigrants in Brexit's
aftermath;
and much more.
Today, the Obama administration
revealed new
information that sheds light on
the reality
of modern warfare, the number of
civilians
accidentally killed in U.S.
airstrikes.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: Today's release is
the first time
the White House has said how
many terrorists
and innocent civilians it
believes have been
killed by airstrikes, including
by drones.
Between 2009 and 2015, the
administration
says it launched 473 airstrikes
in Pakistan,
Yemen and Africa.
It estimates that as many as
2,581 combatants,
and as many as 116 noncombatants
were killed.
Now, these numbers do not
include airstrikes
in Iraq, Afghanistan or Syria,
what the administration
calls areas of active
hostilities.
A new executive order has also
been issued,
with the aim of decreasing the
number of civilian
deaths.
We get two views on all this
Sarah Holewinski.
She was recently with the U.S.
mission to
the United Nations. And before
that, she was
the executive director of the
Center for Civilians
in Conflict, an advocacy group
that seeks
to reduce the number of civilian
casualties.
And Naureen Shah is the director
of the Security
and Human Rights Program at
Amnesty International
USA.
Sarah, Naureen, thank you both
for joining
us.
Naureen, let me start with you.
The first time these numbers
have been released,
what do you make of these
numbers?
NAUREEN SHAH, Amnesty
International USA: Well,
this is a remarkable shift.
We have been asking for exactly
these numbers
for years. But the numbers are
extremely low,
and they come along with a claim
of extraordinary
precision. For the people whose
cases Amnesty
International has documented,
it's anything
but precise.
We're talking about kids struck
by shrapnel,
a woman killed in front of her
grandchildren,
families losing breadwinners.
These are names.
They're individuals. They're not
numbers.
And we need to hear more
acknowledgment from
the Obama administration of
that.
JOHN YANG: I should say, the
Obama administration
acknowledges that these numbers
are estimates.
They say that the NGOs,
non-government organizations,
like yours actually have more
access to research
these numbers.
But, Sarah, the policy has been
and will continue
to be that no airstrikes if
there's a near
certainty that a noncombatant
would be killed.
But we have, on average, out of
these airstrikes,
one in every four of these
airstrikes has
claimed a noncombatant life.
What does that
say about this system and the
precision that
Naureen was talking about of the
system?
SARAH HOLEWINSKI, Former
Executive Director,
Center for Civilians in
Conflict: Yes, precision
is a really tricky thing.
Precision means that you are
hitting the thing
that you think you're going to
hit. I am going
to hit this folder. I am going
to hit this
glass of water. It doesn't mean
that that
folder or the glass of water is
actually the
thing that we think it is.
So if you are striking from the
air with a
drone, for example, you may be
hitting a person
that you thought was something,
but is actually
something else. And sometimes
those are civilians.
JOHN YANG: And also today, we
have an executive
order laying out policy, setting
in policy
for the first time how the
United States is
going to carry out these attacks
in the war
on terrorists.
Naureen, what do you make of
this new policy,
the new executive order?
NAUREEN SHAH: It's extremely
important.
And there's a lot of commitments
in this executive
order that can help us move away
from an unaccountable
drone killing program that's
really meant
that we were on a battlefield,
where the United
States was claiming the
authority to kill
in secret and with impunity.
What we have to see from the
Obama administration
is that they start to make good
on those commitments,
and that includes acknowledging
particular
people killed. That's in the
executive order,
and it's remarkable. But we have
to see the
administration follow through on
that and
not just leave this at the end
of the conversation.
JOHN YANG: Sarah, what's new in
this order?
SARAH HOLEWINSKI: There are
actually quite
a few new things.
So, first and foremost, I want
Americans to
know that we are the only
country, America
is the only country to have a
policy like
this on civilian protection.
That's pretty
remarkable. And we haven't had
it before.
So that's the newest thing about
this.
A lot of the executive order is
about just
enforcing best practices that
the U.S. military
has been doing for a number of
years. But
the new thing, the new several
things, include,
for example, working with our
partners, so
allies and partners, Nigerian
military, Burmese
military, you know, militaries
that we're
equipping and supporting around
the world,
to make sure that they are also
paying attention
to civilian protection and
learning the lessons
that America did.
We also have this very
boring-sounding thing
called an interagency working
group that comes
out of this. It may be
boring-sounding, but
that's exactly how you make
progress within
the U.S. government.
JOHN YANG: Naureen, what are the
measures?
What are you going to look for
to tell whether
progress is being made in this?
NAUREEN SHAH: We're going the
look for whether
the Obama administration breaks
the silence
on people who are killed in
drone strikes,
that they identify civilians,
but who aren't
Americans. And it's actually
astounding that
at this point several years into
the Obama
administration they have never
specifically
named an individual who was
Pakistani or Somali
or Yemeni who was a civilian.
There's a double standard here.
We have seen
American civilians and an
Italian civilian
who was named, but not a
Pakistani civilian
or a Yemeni. And that double
standard has
to end. I think that's in the
executive order.
I think we are going to have to
press the
Obama administration to make
good on its aspirations
and its clear commitments.
JOHN YANG: Sarah, another part
of this executive
order is it says that, every
year, the administration
is going to put out the numbers
that they
put out today, the number of
combatants and
also noncombatants killed by
airstrikes.
But the first one is due May 1.
The president
won't -- the Obama
administration won't be
there May 1. This executive
order could be
changed by the next president.
So what does
this really mean? What is really
going on?
SARAH HOLEWINSKI: Well, it's an
amazing step
from this administration to have
a uniform
policy on civilian protection.
I'm not as worried about it
being an executive
order. I think that was the way
that President
Obama felt like he could make
the biggest
impact on this issue that he
cares about a
lot. The next president that
comes in will
have a fight on his or her hands
if they think
that they are going to get rid
of this executive
order, certainly from, I hope,
the American
public, but also from civil
society and also
from allies around the world who
are taking
this as a sign of U.S.
leadership and are
glad to see it.
JOHN YANG: Naureen, are you
concerned the
fact that they break out these
numbers, that
they aren't telling us what's
going on in
what they call the areas of
active hostilities,
in Iraq, in Afghanistan, in
Syria?
NAUREEN SHAH: Well, what we're
really concerned
about is the administration
providing some
numbers and that being the end
of the conversation.
It needs to be the start of a
conversation,
so that we don't have this
sanitized view.
It can't be that you provide a
data dump and
then that's the end of the
inquiry.
We need Congress to be asking
questions about
not only these numbers, but
numbers of people
who are being killed in Iraq and
Syria and
other places. And we just need a
lot more
scrutiny over the way the U.S.
uses lethal
force and the way that every
government uses
lethal force. There has just
been a record
of people being able to kill
civilians and
others without accountability,
and it's something
that we see across the word.
JOHN YANG: I guess, also, the
question, also,
Sarah, is, are these airstrikes
with drones
and with manned aircraft, are
these effective
ways of fighting terror?
SARAH HOLEWINSKI: It's one way
of fighting
terror. It's certainly not going
to counter
terrorism everywhere.
And what's important about the
numbers that
were released today and this
executive order
is that it is one step toward
the American
public and the Obama
administration and whatever
administration comes next to
understanding
what the impact and efficiency
of those drone
strikes are.
We currently don't know. What is
the impact
on population? Now we're getting
to the point
where we're having that
discussion. It's a
very important discussion to
have.
JOHN YANG: Very good.
Sarah Holewinski, Naureen Shah,
thank you
for coming in today.
SARAH HOLEWINSKI: Thank you.
JOHN YANG: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to Iraq, and
an exclusive
look at the Iraqi city of
Fallujah, from the
side of Iraqi troops who
reclaimed it from
ISIS militants this week.
But even with the government
victory, thousands
of people now languish in the
summer desert
heat, with almost nothing to
sustain them.
Special correspondent Jane Arraf
reports.
JANE ARRAF: This is Fallujah the
morning Iraqi
security forces took back the
city from ISIS.
Months before ISIS declared an
Islamic State
in Mosul two years ago, it
seized this city.
Iraqi security forces, backed by
U.S. airstrikes,
recaptured Fallujah. It took a
month of fighting.
The U.S. tried to make sure
Iraq's Shia militias
backed by Iran were kept on the
sidelines
of the battle for this Sunni
city.
But as Iraqi government forces
moved on after
securing the Jolan neighborhood,
militia fighters
moved in. They scrawled graffiti
on walls
to make sure everyone knew they
were there,
and in some places insults,
accusing Fallujah
of being in bed with ISIS.
"Don't take pictures of this," a
fighter tells
us, near a burning house. They
tell us to
go back to the Iraqi special
forces we have
come to see.
MAN: PBS.
JANE ARRAF: U.S.-trained Iraqi
special forces
led the assault into the south
side of Fallujah.
First Sergeant Amar Ahmed Jassim
says the
elite forces are grateful for
their U.S. training.
1ST SGT. AMAR AHMED JASSIM, Iraq
(through
translator): America, since the
fall of Saddam
until now, has not abandoned
Iraq. Up until
now, they provide air support.
After all,
they are our friends. They won't
abandon us.
JANE ARRAF: Although the main
battle is over,
Iraqi helicopters are still
attacking remaining
ISIS fighters.
This is just a couple of hours
after Iraqi
security forces have declared
Fallujah completely
liberated. Two weeks ago, they
said they had
taken back complete control of
the city, but
it's clear that there have been
still large
pockets of ISIS fighters.
It's also clear that, even
though the city
has been spared a lot of the
destruction of
Ramadi, the provincial capital,
there are
still neighborhoods that are
heavily damaged.
The city is empty. ISIS had kept
more than
80,000 civilians as human
shields. They fled
when ISIS withdrew. The only
civilian we see
is Bushra Daud. There hasn't
been electricity
or running water here for months
and there's
hardly any food. She can't
explain why she
stayed.
ISIS controlled Fallujah for two
years, running
a city of almost 100,000 people.
"We wage
jihad to dedicate the region to
Allah," they
wrote in this public square.
Fighter Ali Sami Hadi tells us
the bridge
above is now dedicated to a
wounded Iraqi
soldier hanged by ISIS.
ALI SAMI HADI, Iraq (through
translator):
ISIS slaughtered those who
opposed them or
wouldn't join them. Here was
their court,
and this was their execution
site.
JANE ARRAF: Celebratory gunfire
rings out
across the city, and fighters
who clearly
aren't professional soldiers
flood the streets.
Abur Rah (ph), the fighter from
Basra, has
borrowed a bicycle. As dusk
falls, Prime Minister
Haider al-Abadi arrives for a
victory tour.
HAIDER AL-ABADI, Iraqi Prime
Minister: This
was quite a challenge, but we
were prepared
at the outside. Once we broke
their defenses,
it was easy to move in.
JANE ARRAF: Fallujah looms large
in the history
of the Iraq War. Abadi notes the
American
military suffered many of its
casualties here
in 2004. He says reconciliation
with the country's
Sunni population, and giving
more power to
the provinces, is the only way
forward.
Asked about the militias, he
tells us:
HAIDER AL-ABADI: The militia is
-- I think
that they were providing some
support to the
federal police in the sense of
equipment.
And if you look around, all
these forces are
really good forces in Fallujah.
JANE ARRAF: Nearby, a commander
of the mostly
Shia paramilitary forces is
mobbed by supporters.
Abu Mahdi Al-Muhandis is on the
U.S. list
of wanted terrorists. Here, he
is a celebrity.
He tells us his forces refuse to
be kept out
of the much bigger fight ahead
in Mosul.
ABU MAHDI AL-MUHANDIS, Iraq
(through translator):
We gave thousands of martyrs as
casualties
because of the bomb factories in
Fallujah
and Mosul. We will go to Mosul,
and we will
meet in Mosul, God willing.
JANE ARRAF: It's an important
victory for
the Iraqi government and an
important step
in pushing back ISIS. But it has
come at a
cost. Everyone who lived under
ISIS has come
under suspicion. Iraq security
forces have
detained for investigation
20,000 men and
boys who fled the city. They are
still holding
9,000 of them.
An American organization has
arrived with
its Iraqi partner to deliver aid
to some of
those held at a detention center
three hours
from Baghdad. But officials say
they will
confiscate the toothbrushes
which can be used
to stab people. And they're
afraid some will
hang themselves with the towels.
"Tell my family I love them,"
says this man.
Another says the militias handed
him over
to the Iraqi army 15 days ago
over a personal
quarrel. Samir Salman has been
here much longer.
SAMIR SALMAN, Detainee (through
translator):
I have been here for seven
months. I know
nothing about my family. They
brought me from
Baghdad to here, and I don't
know why.
JANE ARRAF: Day after day in
desolate camps
in the desert, families wait for
news of their
husbands and fathers. More than
30,000 of
the 80,000 civilians who fled
the city two
weeks ago have ended up here,
near the town
of Amiriyah al-Fallujah.
A day after the Iraqi government
announced
it retook the city, we can't
find anyone who
has heard the news. There is no
electricity
here. There isn't even enough
water or toilets.
And there are few aid
organizations. U.N.
officials say the U.S. is
focusing on the
military fight against ISIS,
while underfunding
humanitarian aid.
The Norwegian Refugee Council,
the NRC, is
one of the few international
organizations
here.
Regional director Carsten Hansen
says it's
a catastrophe.
CARSTEN HANSEN, Norwegian
Refugee Council:
Horrible. So, for us, it's --
first of all,
we would like and we are
appealing to our
colleagues in the NGO community
and the U.N.,
we need to scale up.
JANE ARRAF: On this day, they
are distributing
mattresses, but there aren't
enough for everyone.
These are some of the people who
didn't get
the mattresses. They either live
in other
camps or are they aren't
registered or they
don't know how or register. A
lot of the them
are here without their husbands
or sons, who
are being investigated for ties
to ISIS.
And it's left thousands of women
and children
here in these camps. This is
said to be one
of the better ones, actually.
Today is the
first time a lot of them are
getting mattresses.
And up until now, they have
actually been
sleeping on the ground in the
sand and the
dust and the heat.
A lot of the people here paid
ISIS everything
they had to leave the city. They
were already
poor and now they have nothing
left. The Iraqi
government considers them
potential security
threats and won't let even those
with relatives
in Baghdad leave the province.
Hakeem Yassin is livid. He
insists we follow
him to see his tent.
"Come with me," he says. "Look,
there's no
water. There's nothing."
He says corrupt Iraqi
businesspeople are making
money from these desolate camps.
Mustafa Ahmed is one of those
who didn't get
a mattress. He was a baby during
the 2004
battle for Fallujah, when he was
badly wounded
by shrapnel during a U.S. air
attack. He lost
a leg and a kidney. Four years
later, he was
taken to Oregon to be fitted
with a prosthetic
leg. But he's long outgrown it.
When he and his family fled
Fallujah, he walked
eight miles on crutches. Here,
he can't even
get catheter tubes.
People here wait in misery just
20 miles from
Fallujah, unable to go forward
or return home.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Jane
Arraf.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Mark Shields
and Ramesh Ponnuru analyze this
week's news;
how Ernest Hemingway used other
people's bad
behavior to make a name for
himself; and the
benefits of reading for fun.
But, first: Just days after the
British vote
to leave the European Union,
police in the
U.K. announced an increase in
hate crime reports
against immigrants and
minorities.
Anti-Muslim cartoon pamphlets
were distributed,
and a Muslim butcher was
firebombed near the
city of Birmingham. On streets
and public
transport across the country,
South Asians
and other minorities are
reportedly being
told to -- quote -- "go home."
Polish immigrants are the
largest group of
E.U. citizens in the U.K. They
have also come
under attack in recent days.
Hari Sreenivasan was in London,
and he filed
this report.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This section
of London,
known as Hammersmith has always
been a hub
for Polish immigrants. The
Polish deli opened
up a few years ago, serving up a
slice of
home.
Daria Pluszczok's parents own
this business.
Xenophobic attacks in the
aftermath of the
Brexit vote has the 22-year-old
anxious, so
anxious, she asked us not to
show her face.
DARIA PLUSZCZOK, Business Owner:
I have loads
of customers that are coming in,
and telling
us they're a bit afraid now,
they're a bit
scared of coming out and
speaking Polish on
roads and someone maybe
attacking them or
being rude to them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Daria knows
the feeling
firsthand.
DARIA PLUSZCZOK: I was in a
train station
and a guy was like, the lift is
not working
because of you foreigners. Go
back to your
country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Sentiments
that are being
expressed more post-Brexit vote.
In Huntingdon, an 11-year-old
boy found one
of several leaflets sent
throughout the town,
saying, "Polish vermin, go
home."
In Portsmouth, this was
spray-painted behind
a war memorial. In Hammersmith,
London, just
down the road from the Polish
deli, someone
vandalized the front of the
Polish Social
Cultural Association.
We sat down with director Joanna
Mludzinska.
JOANNA MLUDZINSKA, Director,
Polish Social
Cultural Association: They
immediately started
to scrub this message out,
because, obviously,
we didn't want all our visitors
coming in
all day to be confronted with
this message.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What did it
say?
JOANNA MLUDZINSKA: I don't
really want to
repeat the exact words, but you
can imagine.
But the basic message was, get
out, but fairly
graphic. It was the first time
we have ever
had anything like this. Yes, I
suppose you
have to draw the conclusion that
something
-- something has been set free
with this referendum
decision.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Since the
vandalism, there
has been an outpouring of
support toward the
center from well-wishers. Police
are investigating.
The mayor has asked for
vigilance. Even Prime
Minister David Cameron mentioned
it in his
first significant address to the
House of
Commons since the vote.
DAVID CAMERON, British Prime
Minister: We
have seen verbal abuse hurled
against individuals
because they're members of
ethnic minorities.
Let's remember, these people
have come here
and made a wonderful
contribution to our country.
We will not stand for hate crime
or these
kinds of attacks. They must be
stamped out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jakub Krupa
works as the
Polish Press Agency's U.K.
correspondent.
He says part of the reason Poles
are being
targeted comes down to numbers.
JAKUB KRUPA, Polish Press
Agency: You have
850,000 Poles in the U.K., which
is a significant
group. When you think that three
million people
are coming from the E.U. living
in the U.K.,
every third migrant from the
European Union
is Polish.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Part of the
tension springs
from the community's rapid
growth.
JAKUB KRUPA: Twelve years ago,
before Poland
joined the European Union, there
were only
50,000 people. You have 800,000
people coming
to the U.K. over the last 12
years.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Poland and
Britain have
a long history together, going
back to World
War II, when Polish airmen aided
in the battle
for Britain.
Suresh Grover is tracking the
most recent
battle. He works for The
Monitoring Group,
a 35-year-old civil rights
anti-racism organization.
SURESH GROVER, The Monitoring
Group: The Muslim
Council, for example, has
reported over 200
calls to the government, mosques
being picketed
by people. We have had reports
of people coming
out on the streets in Newcastle
with T-shirts
saying, "Now that we have won,
send them back."
HARI SREENIVASAN: Grover says 90
percent of
these incidents are never
reported to the
police. He blames the leave
campaign's immigrant
scapegoating for the expressions
of nativist
anger and immigrant fears.
SURESH GROVER: Racism that used
to be meted
out because of the color of your
skin now
transferred, not color-coded, to
other people
because they're products of a
globalized world
coming in and taking their
markets.
HARI SREENIVASAN: After the
vote, Nigel Farage,
who leads the anti-E.U. U.K.
Independence
Party, said the strain
immigrants put on every
system, from the economy to
health care to
education, is something the
remain voters
don't understand.
NIGEL FARAGE, European
Parliament Member:
They don't get what open-door
mass immigration
as a result of E.U. membership
has done to
people's wages, to people's
availability of
getting G.P. appointments, or
their kids into
local schools. This was the
issue ultimately
that won this election.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The spark that
lit the racist
fire may have been economic, but
Grover says
the flames can spread, consuming
vast parts
of British society.
SURESH GROVER: The residue of
this nationalism,
it's not just patriotic -- it's
nationalism
towards the right -- lasts for a
long time,
and the damage is done for a
long time.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Beginning with
a sense of
injustice for people like Daria
Pluszczok.
You think that Polish citizens
are second-class
citizens here?
DARIA PLUSZCZOK: Yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Why?
DARIA PLUSZCZOK: I don't think
we're just
being treated equally at all. I
don't know.
That's just my opinion.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
Hari Sreenivasan, London.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now to our
wrap of the
week's political news, from the
new cloud
hanging over an investigation
into Hillary
Clinton's e-mail practices to
Donald Trump's
latest take on trade.
We turn to the analysis of
Shields and Ponnuru.
That is syndicated columnist
Mark Shields,
and "National Review" senior
editor Ramesh
Ponnuru. David Brooks is away.
And welcome to you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's start out,
though, with
what happened today, the
attorney general
of the United States, Loretta
Lynch, saying
that she wouldn't do it again,
wouldn't have
a meeting like the one she had
earlier in
the week with former President
Bill Clinton.
Mark, Loretta Lynch said,
wouldn't do it again.
And she said now she accepts the
recommendation,
she will accept the
recommendation of the
FBI director, won't make any
changes.
How much damage to Hillary
Clinton from this?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, we will find
out. That's
to be determined, but the damage
to Bill Clinton's
judgment, to Loretta Lynch's
judgment, the
attorney general, is
considerable.
Just -- you know, Ben Bradlee,
the legendary
editor of The Washington Post,
said never
do anything that you can't
imagine being reported
the next day in The Washington
Post on the
front page above the fold. And
this is a perfect
example of that.
Bill Clinton, yes, he's
gregarious. His unlimited
self-confidence in his ability
to charm people
is deserved. He's one of the
probably -- most
charming people ever to walk the
planet. But
the misjudgment of his having a
meeting, a
private meeting with the
attorney general
while the Justice Department is
investigating
his wife on these charges is
just unthinkable.
And where was her judgment in
saying, no,
Mr. President?
JUDY WOODRUFF: The attorney
general.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're saying
it doesn't
hurt Hillary Clinton?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, it will be
determined.
You have given the decision now
to James Comey,
the FBI director, completely. If
I'm not mistaken,
Judy, at the time of David
Petraeus, the recommendation
was to prosecute him for felony,
and the attorney
general of the United States
then, Eric Holder,
intervened and said, no, this is
a misdemeanor,
it shouldn't be a felony.
Now, James Comey, his
independence, his integrity
has been firmly established in
practice by
standing up to the White House
of George W.
Bush that appointed him. So it
gives to him,
and that's it. And I don't think
anybody questions
his -- that he's a partisan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ramesh, how do
you see this
affecting Hillary Clinton at
this point?
RAMESH PONNURU: Well, Attorney
General Lynch
has said that she expects to
accept the FBI
recommendations.
But a source close to her told
journalist
Mark Halperin that she still has
a chance
of overriding that
recommendation. I think
it would be very hard in these
political circumstances
for her to actually overrule it.
If there's no indictment of
Hillary Clinton
following this investigation, I
think this
incident makes it easier for
Republicans to
say, well, that's because the
fix was in.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But in terms of
Loretta Lynch
saying today, I wouldn't do it
again, I'm
not going to let -- you're
saying Loretta
-- somebody close to Loretta
Lynch is saying
something different. She said
she's going
to accept the recommendation of
the FBI. You're
saying, despite that...
RAMESH PONNURU: There are
conflicting reports
about how ironclad that
assurance is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
RAMESH PONNURU: But, at the end
of the day,
the damage has already been done
to Hillary
Clinton. Assuming that there is
no indictment,
the damage is that most
Americans don't regard
her as honest and trustworthy,
and that's
been something that has been an
anchor on
her poll numbers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying
just no matter
what comes out of this FBI
investigation?
RAMESH PONNURU: I think that,
even if there
are not formal legal charge,
people have concluded
that she was not forthcoming.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, the other
-- go ahead.
MARK SHIELDS: Just one quick
thing, Judy,
in that it reinforces the
narrative, the unflattering
narrative about the Clintons,
that they don't
play by the same rules as
anybody else and
everybody else.
And I think that's a problem for
both the
president, but particularly for
Secretary
Clinton.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And this happens
the same week
that the House Republicans come
out with their
report on the Benghazi attack.
This is the
2012 attack in Benghazi, Libya.
They spent months looking into
this, Ramesh.
And it was thought that the
object of all
this was Hillary Clinton. The
report essentially
doesn't bring a lot of new
information about
her. It does harshly criticize
the administration
for not providing better
security there, though.
RAMESH PONNURU: That's right.
If people go into the report
looking for a
smoking gun about Hillary
Clinton, they're
going to be disappointed. But it
does provide
new detail on two things, first,
the security
failures in Benghazi and how
repeated warnings
about those failures and those
risks were
ignored, and, second, how the
administration
early on after the attacks put
out a public
narrative about the relationship
of those
attacks to an anti-Muslim video
that it had
reason to believe wasn't true.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does it add
up to, Mark?
MARK SHIELDS: It adds up, Judy,
to a personal
tragedy.
Anne Stevens, the ambassador's
sister, had
an interview with "The New
Yorker" this week
in which she essentially said
her brother
took the risk knowing the
security circumstances
himself in Benghazi when he went
there.
But I think this is a story that
died on two
earlier occasions. The first was
when Hillary
Clinton appeared before the
committee. I mean,
in a marathon session, she
absolutely dominated
them. She was far superior to
her interrogators.
She exposed them as shallow and
partisan.
And she showed great command of
the facts.
The second that was reinforced
by a then House
Majority -- House Majority
Leader Kevin McCarthy's
boast on FOX News that the
Benghazi committee
had knocked down her poll
numbers, and that
the Republican House Caucus
deserved credit
for having created this
committee for that
purpose.
So, this -- I just don't -- I
think the story
is over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's a wash?
RAMESH PONNURU: Yes, I don't
think there is
going to be a huge political
impact, except
on this.
This is one reason, this whole
Benghazi story
is one reason that Hillary
Clinton can't run
on her accomplishment in Libya
when she was
secretary of state, which at one
point that
they had wanted to do.
MARK SHIELDS: Pretty tough to
run on Libya,
yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes.
Well, let's talk about Donald
Trump for a
minute. He's been speaking all
over the country
this week, Mark, on trade, and
talking about
American workers, and saying
that Democrats
-- singling out Hillary Clinton,
but saying
Democrats across the board, and
he also singled
out the Chamber of Commerce,
which is typically
a friend of Republicans, and
saying they're
in the tank, too, to this whole
idea of free
trade.
MARK SHIELDS: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is this a smart
strategy on
Donald Trump's part?
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
Democrats ought to be grateful
that Donald
Trump has not been doing this
for the past
two months, that he's been
squandering his
time and goodwill by attacking a
federal judge's
heritage and things of that
importance, of
his personal -- or explaining
Trump institute
or Trump University or whatever
else.
It is, Judy -- actually, it's
been a cornerstone
of Republican ideology a belief
in free trade.
And the reality is that
Republican voters
now are more skeptical, as seen
in exit polls
this year, of free trade's
benefits, the liabilities,
the loss of jobs, rather than
creation of
jobs, even more so than
Democratic voters.
So Donald Trump is going into
areas where
the manufacturing jobs have been
lost, where
there is stagnation, where there
is very little
optimism about the future, where
people are
underemployed, and he has an
explanation for
it, and he stands as the
anti-establishment
figure.
He's critical of Washington.
He's critical
of both parties. He's critical
of the Chamber
of Commerce. So, I think it's --
and, plus,
it was a real speech. I mean, he
did it with
footnotes. He did with it a
press release.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It was actually a
couple of
speeches.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right. But
it was like
a real campaign all of a sudden,
instead of
Donald Trump talking off the
cuff.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you see him
getting some
mileage out of this, Ramesh?
RAMESH PONNURU: I am a little
bit more skeptical
about the political utility of
this line of
attack on trade that he has
taken, because,
if you look at the polling, even
though we
have been hearing a lot of
skepticism about
trade from politicians over the
last year,
public opinion doesn't seem to
have shifted
that much.
And Americans seem to regard
trade more as
a source of opportunity than as
a source of
danger. Those numbers have not
really budged,
at least the Gallup numbers,
over the last
decade. And I think there is an
opportunity
for Hillary Clinton to take a
more balanced
look at trade and in that
fashion to win some
of the voters that have voted
Republican in
the past.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So there's not
more motivation,
though, on the part of workers
who feel aggrieved
by trade perhaps?
MARK SHIELDS: I do. It's a
disagreement.
I think you go to Pennsylvania,
and go to
Ohio, go to Michigan, go to
Indiana, go to
Wisconsin, and you will find, I
mean, a sense
of disenchantment and
alienation. And I think
Donald Trump taps into that. And
it's certainly
far superior to what he's been
wasting his
time on in this campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you see, in
fact, some
poll numbers in some of these
battleground
states coming out, the states
like Pennsylvania,
where we have white blue-collar
workers who
are apparently, a number of
them, gravitating
to Donald Trump.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right. No,
that's exactly
true.
RAMESH PONNURU: You have got the
white-collar
workers going the other ways in
a lot of these
polls as well, a lot of
white-collar Republicans,
college-educated Republicans...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Heading toward...
(CROSSTALK)
RAMESH PONNURU: ... are more
supportive of
Hillary than they have been of
past Democrats.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The map and the
demographics
are shifting in all kinds of
ways.
OK, finally, this Supreme Court
decision this
week, Ramesh, on abortion, the
court basically
ruled that Texas tightening the
definition
of what an abortion clinic has
to be, has
to do at these Texas clinics,
that that's
unconstitutional. Is this -- do
you see this
becoming a political issue,
abortion?
RAMESH PONNURU: Abortion is
always a political
issue to some degree in a
presidential election.
Most voters don't think of it as
their top
issue, but there are a lot of
voters out there
who do. What's interesting this
year, what's
unusual is that you have got a
Republican
nominee who doesn't seem to care
that much
about the abortion issue or
about the pro-life
element of the Republican
coalition.
So on the day that the Supreme
Court made
its decision, usually, the
nominee would put
out a statement. Donald Trump
didn't have
anything to say about it. What
he had to talk
about instead was Senator
Elizabeth Warren's
attacks on the hats that the
Trump campaign
has been selling. That's what he
decided to
talk about instead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
the effect...
MARK SHIELDS: I think, Judy,
abortion remains
a constant in American politics.
Americans have grown
dramatically more tolerant,
more accepting of gay and
lesbian rights,
of all sorts of -- having a
child out of wedlock,
sex outside of marriage,
Americans. But abortion
remains a divide and a division
within this
country. A majority of Americans
believe it
should be legal in most or all
circumstances.
A substantial minority, over 40
percent, believe
it shouldn't be. And what you
have is really
a moral cleavage in the country.
Americans,
even 50 percent of women,
according to Gallup,
believe that abortion is morally
wrong, even
though they are accepting of it.
So it's this terrible dilemma.
And the Democrats,
and especially Secretary Clinton
has become
probably the most aggressively
pro-choice
nominee of any party in our
history. I mean,
her position used to be that
abortion should
be safe, legal and rare. And the
rare has
been dropped. It's now just safe
and legal.
And she accepted the nomination
by going to
Planned Parenthood, not by going
to the AFL-CIO,
not by going to a school, not by
going to
a women's shelter, by going to
Planned Parenthood
and say, this is where I want to
be, this
is where I'm most comfortable.
And I think it probably
indicates where she
feels -- I mean, it's her
conviction, and
I think it's where she sees this
election.
And Trump has been all over the
lot. I mean,
he was for late-term abortion
legally. And
now he -- and this campaign, he
has been for
prosecuting and incarcerating a
woman who
had a legal abortion. But he's
now revamped
both positions and still -- I
think he's still
supporting Planned Parenthood,
if I'm not
mistaken.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are going to
have to leave
it there on this issue, as you
say, perpetual
in American political life and
moral life.
Mark Shields, Ramesh Ponnuru,
thank you very
much.
RAMESH PONNURU: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: another
addition to our
summer reading list.
It is a look at the origins of
one of American
literature's finest works by one
of our most
celebrated writers.
Recently, Jeffrey Brown talked
with journalist
and cultural historian Lesley
M.M. Blume about
her new book, "Everybody Behaves
Badly: The
True Story Behind Hemingway's
Masterpiece
The Sun Also Rises."
JEFFREY BROWN: Lesley Blume,
welcome to you.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME, Author,
"Everybody Behaves
Badly: The True Story Behind
Hemingway's Masterpiece
The Sun Also Rises": Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is
interesting that the
picture on the cover is a little
unusual,
but the picture on the cover is
actually the
starting point for you to this
whole endeavor.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Yes.
So, I was researching another
project, and
I came across this very enticing
photograph
of Hemingway with a very
attractive and
mischievous-looking
group of people around the cafe
table in Pamplona
in 1925.
And there was a woman.
JEFFREY BROWN: Pamplona, Spain,
right.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: I'm sorry.
Pamplona, Spain,
where they were all gathered for
the annual
San Fermin bull-fighting
festival.
And the woman who was sitting
next to Hemingway
was this sort of, like,
glamorous woman, and
she had a sort of coquettish
look on her face.
And I was immediately intrigued
by her.
JEFFREY BROWN: Who's that and
what's her story?
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Exactly.
And it turned out that she --
her name was
Lady Duff Twysden, and she was
the real-life
inspiration behind Lady Brett
Ashley in Hemingway's
debut novel, "The Sun Also
Rises."
I have long been a Lost
Generation obsessive,
but I hadn't realized that that
she had been
-- that Lady Brett Ashley had
been drawn from
real life. And I wanted to learn
more, so
I looked for a compelling book
that would
tell me the real life backstory
behind "The
Sun Also Rises," and I didn't
find one.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right. You
couldn't find one,
so you decided to do it?
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: I wrote it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Remind us about
"The Sun Also
Rises," the story, the novel
itself.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: It came out
in 1926, and
it is a group of American and
British expats
that are set up in Paris. They
are part of
an expat colony. They're up to
no good, but
it always sways to nobility,
because they're
all there to be writers or
artists.
In the case of Lady Duff
Twysden, she was
there to sit out an aristocratic
divorce.
So, in real life, as in on
paper, this group
of expats goes to Pamplona for
the festival,
and the entire party, shall we
say, dissolves
into quite a brouhaha.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, all kinds of
shenanigans.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Yes, a lot of
bad behavior.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Rivalries,
sexual...
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Sexual
rivalry, fistfights,
you name it, it happened. And it
wasn't a
very good situation for anybody
involved,
except for Hemingway, who in
turn saw this
as desperately needed material
to stage a
breakthrough novelistically.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then suddenly
he had a
lot of material.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Well, he
literally took
the events that had transpired
in Pamplona
and Paris and translated them
onto paper.
JEFFREY BROWN: To the point
where I saw you
say some people wondered whether
it was actual
just journalism or a novel he
had written.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Well,
Hemingway at that
time up to that point and after
the fact was
a reporter. And he was known for
being a really
good reporter.
And one of the real-life
inspirations behind
"The Sun Also Rises" characters
literally
looked at his book after it came
out a year
later, and said, this is nothing
but a report
on what happened. How can he
pass this off
as fiction?
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, this is
Hemingway before
he was Hemingway, right? This is
-- he's all
of 25 years old at the time.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Right.
Well, Hemingway is a baby when
he turns up
in Paris, but he's an ambitious
baby. And
he has the talent. And he's
there to stage
his breakthrough. So many of the
expats who
were there at that time were
there to do precisely
that. It was an ambition-fueled
town.
Hemingway was looking to make a
big splash
with a revolutionary new modern
style that
stretched out adjectives and
just really got
to the point. There was quite a
journalistic
element to that style also. He
wasn't the
only person in town doing it,
but he was the
one who knew that he could do it
in a commercially
successful way.
JEFFREY BROWN: Not only was he
the only person
in town, but a lot of famous
people in town,
right, Fitzgerald and Gertrude
Stein and Ezra
Pound.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: All three of
those people
really helped Hemingway
significantly, and
Gertrude Stein and Ezra Pound
were stylistic
mentors to Hemingway.
But they weren't selling a lot
of copies of
their work. Gertrude Stein
famously only sold
a reported 73 copies of her
first book in
18 months or something. Ezra
Pound is not
selling tens of thousands of
copies of "The
Cantos."
But Hemingway, on the other
hand, takes what's
viable from their styles and
adds it to his
own instinct -- instinctive
style. And he
knows that he has commercially
successful
work, and he's going to showcase
that in "The
Sun Also Rises."
JEFFREY BROWN: And that made his
reputation,
or certainly helped it, his
reputation.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: It brokered
his reputation.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes. How
exactly? Was
it the style? The character of
the man? What
was it, do you think?
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: It was a
combination of
a lot of different things.
Hemingway himself and
Hemingway's writing
were both brilliant, brilliant
cocktails.
And so with Hemingway's writing,
he famously
wrote to one of his publishers
-- he said,
you don't need a high school
education to
enjoy my writing. And it's going
to titillate
the masses. I mean, anybody can
relate to
it, but the style is so
revolutionary that
it will titillate highbrow
critics, which
it did.
And then he said, for people who
are not interested
in the stylistic components of
it, there's
a lot of -- quote -- "dope about
high society,"
and that is always interesting.
So, there
was something for everyone. That
was one of
the things that helped him bring
that revolutionary
style to the masses in a way
that somebody
like Gertrude Stein and Ezra
Pound is just
not going to be able to do.
JEFFREY BROWN: Those always went
hand in hand
with Hemingway, right, the
writing and the
biography.
How did -- when you think about
the ideas,
the views of Hemingway, they
have bounced
around over the decades, right,
of how people
have seen him. How did you come
to see him?
Did you like him?
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: It's an
interesting question.
I spent an awful lot of time
with Hemingway.
And Hemingway had a remarkable
ability to
reach very noble goals through
sometimes ignoble
means.
And I think the question is less
a question
of whether or not I like him or
whether you
forgive what he did in the
service of his
ambition. And Hemingway's talent
was so outsized,
that I feel like I can forgive
him a lot of
his trespasses to have achieved
what he did
achieve.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right.
The book is "Everybody Behaves
Badly: The
True Story Behind Hemingway's
Masterpiece
The Sun Also Rises."
Lesley Blume, thank you.
LESLEY M.M. BLUME: Thank you so
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All week, we have
been sharing
our summer reading list.
And we wanted to close out with
an essay from
author Jennifer Weiner, in
praise of diving
into a book.
JENNIFER WEINER, Author, "Hungry
Heart": They
say that the happiest day of a
writer's life
is the day he or she gets to go
home to tell
mom and dad that the book that
they have written
is actually going to be
published, to be sold
in stores, and read by
strangers, and out
in the world.
I assume that's true for every
writer who
didn't call her first book "Good
in Bed."
I will never forget my mom
hugging me, and
then pulling back to ask, "So
what's the title?"
and feeling my heart sink when I
realized
that I would actually have to
tell her.
With its naked legs and
cheesecake on the
cover, its breezy tone and
wisecracking, single-in-the-city
heroine, I knew that my debut
wasn't a candidate
for the National Book Award. I
knew it was
an entertaining, diverting read,
the kind
of book that would get packed in
beach bags
or purchased for plane trips.
What I didn't know was the way
the world would
treat books like mine, the scorn
and opprobrium
that would be heaped on what the
world would
come to call chick lit, or how
much it would
hurt, or how completely I would
believe it.
At some point in my life,
between birth and
publication, I had gotten the
message that
there were books that mattered
and books that
didn't. For years, I believed
that my work
fell squarely into the second
category. I
bought what the critics were
selling, that
chick lit wasn't real
literature, that it
was only entertainment, that it
was even dangerous,
a kind of fast-growing weed
pushing other
worthier books off the shelves.
But as the years went on, I
started to think,
what's wrong with something
that's -- quote
-- "just entertaining"? Is the
problem that
I'm writing something that's
diverting and
disposable, or that what I'm
writing is diverting,
and disposable and for women?
Is chick lit any worse than
mysteries or thrillers,
the genre fiction that men read,
the stuff
that's at least slightly more
respectable
than romance and women's
fiction? And, most
importantly, is pleasure such a
terrible thing?
It's taken time, but what I have
come to realize
is that providing enjoyment,
helping a plane
ride pass more quickly, making a
hospital
stay less excruciating, letting
a young woman
struggling with her own
insecurities and dysfunction
feel less lonely, is a prize,
too, and it's
one to be treasured.
And so, America, as we prepare
to celebrate
our nation's freedom and head to
the beach,
it's time to embrace the F-word:
fun. Let's
declare our independence from
the shackles
of shame. Take whatever you want
to the beach,
or the bus, or to bed. Read
without apology,
for enrichment and enjoyment.
Whether it's spiky, challenging
postmodern
fiction, or commercial women's
fiction, or
commercial men's fiction, more
commonly known
as books, read what you like
wherever you
can and embrace the joy of the
stories that
make you happy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can find
all of our
essays online at
PBS.org/NewsHour/essays.
And tune in later tonight on
"Washington Week."
As we march closer to the
political conventions,
Donald Trump focuses on his pick
of a running
mate. That is later tonight on
"Washington
Week."
Tomorrow on "PBS NewsHour
Weekend": how refugees
may be saving one rural economy
by taking
jobs few others want.
And before we go tonight, we
want to take
a moment to thank Greg King.
Greg has played
a key role for the "NewsHour"
and for our
producing TV station, WETA, as
one of our
lead technicians for 44 years.
He is retiring after today. And
we want to
say thanks to Greg and wish him
the very best
on his next chapter in life.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Have a great July 4 weekend.
Thank you, and
good night.